# ASAP Rocky

ASAP Rocky didn’t seem to have a lot of change, song wise. He kept with his usual style and there was little variation between mood and tone. However, his biggest change when comparing albums, were the topics of his songs. His early album talked a lot about his reaction to fame and the changes that came with it. It was mostly focused on his life, the new things it brought him, how it compared to before. His recent album, although similar in sound and subject matter, was of a different reaction to fame and wealth. In this album, he took on a more cynical view. Most of his songs were about the downsides of fame, especially arrogance. The problems he talked about in his earlier album were that of fake people trying to ride on his coattails,  

# Childish Gambino
Childish Gambino exhibited a lot of growth. His early album, although upbeat, had a lot of negative tones. Most of his songs were about how Gambino didn’t feel like he fit into the description of what a rapper should be. This was his response, his anger towards these preconceived notions and his way to prove that he is an artist worthy of a successful career. Much of this album followed a traditional meter and beat, and the mood was generally upbeat and energetic. However, when comparing it to his later album it’s almost as if he took a step back. The trend is that artists get more experimental as they grow, but Gambino seemed to simplify his songs in his new album. The biggest changes were the topics. The songs of his recent album were closer to dance songs and anthems, keeping that same positive and energetic tone but with simpler lyrics. This was a large jump from the lyrically complicated, rather negative songs from his early album. But that isn’t to say his recent album didn’t contain the same level of intricacy. Although most of his tracks on this album were seemingly simple, catchy songs about love and dance, the topics ranged from coercing children to sell drugs to the anxiety ending relationships.

# Vince Staples
Vince Staples’s early album had a lot of songs that sounded like conventional rap songs. His tone and choice of topics often went hand in hand, with the main theme being anger towards the systematic racism that thwarted him. The sound of this album was high energy and he was very expressive with his vocals. Looking at his latest album, hiis choice of topics didn’t change, but rather his style. Compared to his earlier album, this recent album was a lot more dialed back and used more experimental elements. He incorporated spoken word, offbeat meters, and more instrumentals and vocals. One song I looked at was just a retelling of a story from his youth. The overall tone of this album was less intense and more relaxed which contrasts heavily with the upbeat and lively songs of his earlier album, but still kept to the same topics.

