<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="hip-hop.css"/>
      <title>Hip-Hop Songs</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <section>
         <h2>Mood: AMBIGUOUS</h2>
         <div class="neutral">
            
            <p>Something real, yeah</p>
            
            <p>Baby</p>
            
            <p>Oh nah, we don't do backpack</p>
            
            <p>Haha, my pick up line and shit</p>
            
            <p>Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah</p>
            
            <p>I got your bitch movin'</p>
            
            <p>Call me when you get lost</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: HOPEFUL</h2>
         <div class="positive">
            
            <p>Aw, you look malnourished (Malnourished)</p>
            
            <div class="money">
               <p>Let's get some bread, fry it in egg yolk and drown it in syrup (Drown it in
                  syrup)</p>
            </div>
            
            <p>You pick a spot, I pick a tail number and we could be tourists (Ooh, yeah)</p>
            
            <p>Let's go to Cannes and watch a couple indie movies that you never heard of
               (Baby)</p>
            
            <p>Listen to bands, groove and we dance</p>
            
            <p>Disco in France, smell some perfume, head in the wind (In the wind)</p>
            
            <p>We can switch off</p>
            
            <p>I can show you how you can really exfoliate skin</p>
            
            <p>If you got a man, you should cut it off</p>
            
            <p>Get your passport 'cause we runnin' off (Run off)</p>
            
            <p>We can sit and talk</p>
            
            <p>You can tell me everything that's on your chest, baby, get it off</p>
            
            <p>You are my type, you a bright light</p>
            
            <p>I'm like a moth, this is not a game (This is not a game)</p>
            
            <p>But before we start (Before I say)</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: HOPEFUL</h2>
         <div class="neutral">
            
            <p>What's your name, girlfriend, what's your name? (Check it out)</p>
            
            <p>(What's your name?)</p>
            
            <p>What's your name, girlfriend, what's your name? (Tell me)</p>
            
            <p>What's your name, girlfriend, what's your name? (Check it out)</p>
            
            <p>(Oh, what's your name?)</p>
            
            <p>What's your name, girlfriend, what's your name? (Oh, girl)</p>
            
            <p>Yeah</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: AMBIGUOUS</h2>
         <div class="neutral">
            
            <p>What is your name, what do you bring? (Yeah)</p>
            
            <p>I think that I got what you need</p>
            
            <p>And I'm willin' to do anything that you please (Baby)</p>
            
            <p>I'm tryna get down to the root of the apple</p>
            
            <p>The deepest I could in them jeans</p>
            
            <p>McLaren like Sonic, can't speak, no</p>
            
            <p>No, you can't hit my lean, no (Baby)</p>
            
            <p>Baby, tell me where the piece go, 'cause I'm lost</p>
            
            <p>Your body compared to the fashion</p>
            
            <p>I hope you ain't proud of the shit that I bought (Baby)</p>
            
            <p>'Cause money, it don't mean a thing</p>
            
            <p>I value the times that I take you out</p>
            
            <p>One minute, it's a beautiful scene</p>
            
            <p>Then it probably end with me bein' took out, woah-oh</p>
            
            <p>Think slow, 'cause I move fast (Oh, me)</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: AMBIGUOUS</h2>
         <div class="neutral">
            
            <p>What's your name, girlfriend, what's your name? (Check it out)</p>
            
            <p>(Oh, what's your name?)</p>
            
            <p>What's your name, girlfriend, what's your name? (Tell me)</p>
            
            <p>What's your name, girlfriend, what's your name? (Tell me)</p>
            
            <p>(Oh, what's your name?)</p>
            
            <p>What's your name, girlfriend, what's your name? (Yeah)</p>
            
            <p>(Oh-oh)</p>
            
            <p>Yeah</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: AMBIGUOUS</h2>
         <div class="neutral">
            
            <p>Since when did I bring a C5?</p>
            
            <p>I wanna know your name</p>
            
            <p>I feel like I had your name</p>
            
            <p>Oh-oh, oh, oh, ooh, ooh</p>
            
            <p>Stop playin' and let me pay your momma debt off, haha</p>
            </div>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>