<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="hip-hop.css"/>
      <title>Hip-Hop Songs</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <section>
         <h2>Mood: AMBIGUOUS</h2>
         <div class="neutral">
            
            <p>Uh-uh, uh-uh</p>
            
            <p>One, two, one, two, one, two, one, two, yeah</p>
            
            <p>Uh-uh, uh-uh</p>
            
            <p>One, two, one, two, one, two, one, two, yeah</p>
            
            <p>Uh</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: ANGRY</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>Baby girl, I can't imagine what it's like for you</p>
            
            <div class="social_issues">
               <p>I got you pregnant, now inside there is a life in you</p>
            </div>
            
            <p>I know you wonderin' if this is gon' make me think 'bout wifin' you</p>
            
            <p>Like, if you have my first child</p>
            
            <p>Would I spend my whole life with you?</p>
            
            <p>Now, I ain't tryna pick a fight with you, I'm tryna talk</p>
            
            <p>Now, I ain't tryna spend the night with you, I'm kinda lost</p>
            
            <p>See, I've been givin' it some thought lately</p>
            
            <p>And frankly I feel like we ain't ready and this—</p>
            
            <p>Hold up now, let me finish!</p>
            
            <p>Think about it, baby, me and you, we still kids ourself</p>
            
            <p>How we gonna raise a kid by ourself?</p>
            
            <p>Handle biz by ourself? A nigga barely over twenty</p>
            
            <div class="poverty">
               <p>Where the hell we gon' live? Where am I gon' get that money?</p>
            </div>
            
            <p>I refuse to bring my boy or my girl in this world</p>
            
            <p>When I ain't got shit to give 'em, and I'm not with them niggas</p>
            
            <p>Who be knockin' girls up and skate out</p>
            
            <p>So, girl, you gotta think about how the options weigh out</p>
            
            <p>What's the way out?</p>
            
            <p>Uh</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: SAD</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>And I ain't too proud to tell you</p>
            
            <p>That I cry sometime, I cry sometimes about it</p>
            
            <p>And girl, I know it hurt, but if this world was perfect</p>
            
            <p>Then we could make it work, but I doubt it</p>
            
            <p>And I ain't too proud to tell you</p>
            
            <p>That I cry sometime, I cry sometimes about it</p>
            
            <p>And girl, I know it hurt, but if this world was perfect</p>
            
            <p>Then we could make it work, but I doubt it</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: ANGRY</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>She said: "Nigga, you got some nerve</p>
            
            <p>To come up to me talkin' about abortion</p>
            
            <div class="social_issues">
               <p>This my body, nigga, so don't think you finna force shit!</p>
            </div>
            
            <p>See, I knew that this is how you act, so typical</p>
            
            <p>Said you love me, oh, but now you flippin' like reciprocals</p>
            
            <p>It figures though, I should've known</p>
            
            <p>That you was just another nigga</p>
            
            <p>No different from them other niggas</p>
            
            <p>Who be claimin' that they love you just to get up in them drawers</p>
            
            <p>Knowin' all the right things to say</p>
            
            <p>I let you hit it raw, mothafucka!</p>
            
            <p>Now I'm pregnant, you don't wanna get involved, mothafucka?</p>
            
            <p>Tryna take away a life—is you God, mothafucka?!</p>
            
            <p>I don't think so! This a new life up in my stomach</p>
            
            <p>Regardless if I'm your wife, this new life here, I'ma love it</p>
            
            <p>I ain't budgin', I just do this by my mothafuckin' self</p>
            
            <div class="family">
               <p>See, my mama raised me without no mothafuckin' help</p>
            </div>
            
            <p>From a man, but I still don't understand how you could say that</p>
            
            <p>Did you forget all those conversations that we had way back</p>
            
            <div class="family">
               <p>'Bout your father? And you told me that you hate that nigga</p>
            </div>
            
            <p>Talkin' about he a coward and you so glad that you ain't that nigga</p>
            
            <div class="social_issues">
               <p>‘Cause he left your mama when she had you and he ain't shit</p>
            </div>
            
            <p>And here you go doin' the same shit… You ain't shit, nigga!"</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: SAD</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>And I ain't too proud to tell you</p>
            
            <p>That I cry sometimes, I cry sometimes about it</p>
            
            <p>And boy, this shit hurts, and ain’t nobody perfect</p>
            
            <p>Still we can make it work, but you doubt it</p>
            
            <p>And I ain't too proud to tell you</p>
            
            <p>That I cry sometimes, I cry sometimes about it</p>
            
            <p>And boy, this shit hurts, and ain’t nobody perfect</p>
            
            <p>Still we can make it work, but you doubt it</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: ANXIOUS</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>They say everything happens for a reason</p>
            
            <p>And people change like the seasons, then grow apart</p>
            
            <p>She wanted him to show his heart and say he loved her</p>
            
            <p>He spoke the magic words and on the same day he fucked her</p>
            
            <p>Now she wide open</p>
            
            <p>She'd put a ring up on his finger if she could</p>
            
            <p>But he loved her ‘cause the pussy good</p>
            
            <p>But she ain't no wife though</p>
            
            <p>Uh-oh! She tellin' him she missed her period, like typos</p>
            
            <p>He panickin', froze up like a mannequin, a life grows</p>
            
            <p>Inside her, and now he askin': "Is it even mine?"</p>
            
            <p>What if this bitch ain't even pregnant? Dog, could she be lyin'?</p>
            
            <p>And she be cryin', ‘cause he actin' distant</p>
            
            <p>Like, "Ever since I told you this, nigga, you actin' different."</p>
            
            <p>And all his niggas sayin', "Man, these hoes be trappin' niggas</p>
            
            <p>Playin' with niggas' emotions like they some action figures."</p>
            
            <p>Swear they get pregnant for collateral, it's like extortion</p>
            
            <p>Man, if that bitch really pregnant, tell her to get a abortion Uh</p>
            
            <p>But what about your seed, nigga? Uh-uh</p>
            
            <p>But what about your seed, nigga?</p>
            
            <p>But what about your seed, nigga?</p>
            
            <p>But what about your seed, nigga?</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: SAD</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>And I ain't too proud to tell you</p>
            
            <p>That I cry sometime, I cry sometimes about it</p>
            
            <p>And I ain't too proud to tell you</p>
            
            <p>That I cry sometime, I cry sometimes about it</p>
            </div>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>