<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Hip Hop Humanities</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <ul class="ul-nav">
            <li class="navbar-header">Hip Hop Humanities</li>
            <li class="li-nav"><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
            <li class="li-nav"><a href="playlist.xhtml">Music Player</a></li>
            <li class="li-nav"><a href="methodology.xhtml" class="active">Methodology</a></li>
            <li class="li-nav"><a href="results.xhtml">Results</a></li>
            <li class="li-nav"><a href="about.xhtml">About</a></li>
        </ul>
        
        <h1 class="center">Methodology</h1>
        <section>
            <div>
                <h2>Selection of Songs</h2>
                <p> Our research began by selecting 10 songs from 12 various hip-hop artists, these
                    artists included: </p> <ul class="center"><li>Childish Gambino</li> <li>Tyler the Creator </li><li>Kanye West</li> <li>Mac Miller
                    </li> <li>Kendrick Lamar</li> <li>J. Cole</li> <li>Travis Scott </li><li>Vince Staples</li> <li>Earl Sweatshirt</li> <li>MF DOOM</li> <li>A$AP
                        Rocky </li><li>Kid Cudi</li></ul> In order to avoid bias in terms of selecting songs, we came up
                    with a method. A random number generator was utilized, and from there with the
                    numbers generated, we would select the 10 songs that corresponed with the
                    numbers given across all of the artists' songs. These would then be the songs in
                    which we would markup and anaylize. Songs and their lyrics were pulled from
                    https://genius.com/ in order to avoid copyright. Eventually however, due to time
                    constraints, we would end up having to drop three of these artists, these being
                    MF DOOM, Earl Sweatshirt, and Travis Scott. We decided that this was helpful in
                    the long run, as we were looking to research how artists evolve over their
                    careers, and the ones we dropped had little to no variation overtime, therfore
                    in the end dropping these artists would strengthen our results and produce ones
                    that are more likely to be moreso vali
                <h2> Markup: How We Did It</h2>
                <p> Each group member was given three artists with ten songs each, for 30 songs per
                    group member, making 90 songs in all. </p>
                <h2>Taggging Tone and Mood:</h2>
                <p>In order to mark up these songs and pull the essential information, we decided on
                    tagging tone and mood for every intro, chorus, verse, bridge, interlude, and
                    outro within a song. In order to maintain a sense of consistency throughout all
                    90 songs, the tone and mood attributes were signifigantly constrained. Mood
                    could be tagged as any of the following: hopeful, energetic, cynical, apathetic,
                    empathetic, determined, angry, sad, happy, confident, anxious, ambiguous. Tone
                    was constrained to three: positive, negative, and neutral. In the insatance
                    where a song had a featured artist that sang alone, which was quite frequent,
                    the mood and tone attributes were set to "null," as we were not looking to
                    analize anything that they sang or said because we were specifically looking for
                    the tones and moods of the main artist. Tagging Topics Another essentail piece
                    of information that we needed to isolate from the songs in order to help us
                    track an artist's evolution over time was specifc topics that were being brought
                    up throughout the lyrics. We decided on these such topics being: drugs, death,
                    family, religion, money, poverty, wealth, violence, social issues, gangs, and
                    ambiguous. Tagging topics would allow us to track how, as stated with our
                    reseach question, an artists lyrical subject matter can evolve over time. </p>

            </div>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
