<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="hip-hop.css"/>
      <title>Hip-Hop Songs</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <section>
         <h2>Mood: AMBIGUOUS</h2>
         <div class="positive">
            
            <p>Uh, my mic sounds nice, check one Woo!</p>
            
            <p>My mic sounds nice, check two Uh-huh, yeah-yeah</p>
            
            <p>Testing, one-two, one-two, let's go Uh-huh, yeah-yeah</p>
            
            <p>Uh, woo! Let's go</p>
            
            <p>Uh, uh, yeah-yeah Let's go</p>
            
            <p>My mic sounds nice, check one Yeah, yeah</p>
            
            <p>My mic sounds nice, check two Yeah, testing, testing,
               woo!</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: APATHETIC</h2>
         <div class="positive">
            
            <div class="drugs">
               
               <p>Stoned-stoned when I'm in my zoney-zone</p>
               
               <p>Smokin' on the homegrown, feeling like I'm all alone</p>
               </div>
            
            <p>Used to go to Kingdome, Rucker Park with Tony Tone
               Harlem!</p>
            
            <p>Listenin' to Bone Bone, feelins in my bone bone</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: APATHETIC</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>I can tell it</p>
            
            <p>I could give a fuck about a list, ya heard? Ya heard?</p>
            
            <p>I could give a fuck about a diss, ya heard? Ya heard?</p>
            
            <p>I could give a fuck about your clique, ya heard? Ya
               heard?</p>
            
            <p>Shut the fuck up 'fore I rock your bitch, ya heard? Uh</p>
            
            <p>Shut the fuck up!</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: CYNICAL</h2>
         <div class="neutral">
            
            <p>My mama named me, my papa gave me cock to take a piss with</p>
            
            <p>To fuck ya bitch with, life is different for me, for instance</p>
            
            <p>The type of niggas spray his kids in some chicks</p>
            
            <p>He wouldn't raise his kids with, that type of twisted sick shit</p>
            
            <p>Come on, man</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: ANGRY</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>What you say, nigga? Time's out</p>
            
            <p>Let's start over with this conversation</p>
            
            <p>You sound super crazy right now</p>
            
            <p>And I got my two kids listenin'? I'm just playing</p>
            
            <p>You said what? I said I'm just-</p>
            
            <p>Uh-uh, nigga, you got me fucked up</p>
            
            <p>Shut the fuck up!</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: APATHETIC</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>I could give a fuck about a list, ya heard? Ya heard?</p>
            
            <p>I could give a fuck about a diss, ya heard? Ya heard?</p>
            
            <p>I could give a fuck about your clique, ya heard? Ya
               heard?</p>
            
            <p>Shut the fuck up 'fore I rock your bitch, ya heard?</p>
            
            <p>Shut the fuck up!</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: CONFIDENT</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>People really think I'm an asshole, I say anything
               C'mon</p>
            
            <p>Truthfully, I just say what I really think</p>
            
            <p>Like I'm too fresh, man, to be an under-class-man Too
               fresh</p>
            
            <p>Would say, "Suck my dick"—but that's sexual harassment Take that, let's
               go!</p>
            
            <p>Fuck around and really come through in a murse on ya Come
               on</p>
            
            <p>Who else you know design ya stage and do your merch over? Come
               on</p>
            
            <p>And if you lame, do your verse over Yeah</p>
            
            <p>I changed the game like I'm Kurt Warner Yeah, keep
               going</p>
            
            <p>I run the game like I'm Time Warner Yeah</p>
            
            <p>This ain't no Teen Choice Awards, slime slide on ya Keep goin',
               yeah</p>
            
            <p>And make your home for mama's fried roasting</p>
            
            <p>Had leans and Beams, tomatoes, Mercedes</p>
            
            <p>Had keys and grams, just me and Yams</p>
            
            <p>Yeah, come on</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: CONFIDENT</h2>
         <div class="neutral">
            
            <p>And Stevie rest in peace</p>
            
            <p>Pickin' off the last collard greens, stress up outta me</p>
            
            <p>Now we sellin' out the Coliseum for the dynasty</p>
            
            <p>Tell them boys who got it locked and got the key</p>
            
            <p>You gotta see behind the scenes or in the streets A$AP</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: AMBIGUOUS</h2>
         <div class="neutral">
            
            <p>Peep my repertoire, Uptown esplanade</p>
            
            <p>Eleanor, Druham, Nickel goin too HAM C'mon</p>
            
            <p>AK, Jackie Rob, East 11, 99</p>
            
            <p>Lenox Ave, VLONE, Eastside, Wingstone Yeah, Uptown</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: AMBIGUOUS</h2>
         <div class="positive">
            
            <p>Stoned-stoned when I'm in my zoney-zone</p>
            
            <p>Smokin' on the homegrown, feeling like I'm all alone
               Yeah</p>
            
            <p>Used to go to Kingdome, Rucker Park with Tony Tone C'mon, that's
               right</p>
            
            <p>Listenin' to Bone Bone, feelins in my bone bone Yeah,
               yeah</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: APATHETIC</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>I can tell it</p>
            
            <p>I could give a fuck about a list, ya heard? Take that,
               yeah</p>
            
            <p>I could give a fuck about a diss, ya heard? Ya heard?</p>
            
            <p>I could give a fuck about your clique, ya heard? Take
               that</p>
            
            <p>Shut the fuck up 'fore I rock your bitch, ya heard? Uh Take that, take
               that</p>
            </div>
         <h2>Mood: APATHETIC</h2>
         <div class="negative">
            
            <p>Ayo, we don't give a fuck about none of that shit</p>
            
            <p>This is Harlem, motherfuckers Yeah, take that, take
               that</p>
            
            <p>The fuck you think? Uptown, nigga!</p>
            
            <p>Mob, A$AP, Same Gang, Tone Wop</p>
            
            <p>Harlem</p>
            </div>
      </section>
   </body>
</html>